# Design Document

## Wikitext constructs split across top-level content and templates

There are two ways in which Parsoid trips on templates that cause a wikitext
construct to be split across top-level-content and templates.

1. In one form, the first part of the construct swallows the other part of the
construct into its attributes.  But in addition, it also swallows following
tokens/content as well.  The fix is to separate the two and move that other
content out back to the top level.  (T48811 is an example of this)

2. In another form, the construct is split between two adjacent tokens.  The
fix is to bring content together across tokens / DOM nodes (T69857, T69850,
T52603, T46498)

Both these forms affect tables.  The first form is seen when a template is used
in the table-attribute (and possibly table-row-attribute) position.  The second
form is seen when a template is used in table-cell-attribute position.  The
reason why we these two different manifestations of the same problem is because
of the peculiarities of how the table-opening-tag and table-cell-tags are
tokenized and what the tokenizer can assume about transclusions.

The second form is addressed by the code in Wt2Html/PP/Handlers/TableFixups.php
where the DOM is examined to bring together the split pieces.  However, so far,
it only supports templates that generates attributes of a table-cell and a
single following table cell.  But, we now need to generalize this support to
support multiple table-cells being generated by these templates to cover the
last of the big unsupported scenarios.

Example wikitext for it is:

```
{|
|{{convert| 400|m|ft|disp=table|sortable=on}}
|}
```

This affects enwiki:List_of_largest_container_ships (among possibly other
pages).  Generalizing the code in TableFixups.php should probably take care of
this.

The longer term fix for both these issues is to start scoping the output of
templates to return DOM-representable strings and split some of these
monolithic templates into multiple templates, one that generate just the
attribute, and another that return just additional content.  This also improves
WYSIWYG editability of some of these tables.
